.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii cbtfsummary.1
.\"
.TH CBTFSUMMARY 1 "AUGUST 2018" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
cbtfsummary \- CBTF Summary experiment script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.IP "cbtfsummary simple_executable"
.IP "cbtfsummary ""executable args"""
.IP "cbtfsummary ""multi_executable"""
.fi

.SH TYPICAL USAGE FORM
.nf

cbtfsummary "multi_executable"

For example:

setenv CBTF_CSVDATA_DIR /opt/data/csvdata
cbtfsummary "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpirun -np 4 /u/user/mpi_prog" 

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cbtfsummary

cbtfsummary is a convenience command script that invokes the 
CBTF application level performance tool to gather a number of
performance information metrics about the application being 
monitored and reports that information back to the user in 
order to give a high-level overview or summary of the 
performance bottlenecks in the user application.

cbtfsummary creates comma separated list (csv) files, per 
thread of execution, containing application level performance 
information for MPI, OpenMP, I/O, Memory usage, kokkos, and 
hardware performance counters.  cbtfsummary is intended to 
provide a low overhead overview of application performance
across multiple performance metric types.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "simple_executable"
This option specifies the simple executable to be run. By 
simple executable we mean a one word command with no arguments.
No quotes around the executable name are needed when the command
is a single word command with no arguments.

.IP " ""executable args"" "
This option specifies an executable with arguments to be run. In
this case the executable can be a one word command or a multiple word
(multiple tokens) command, such as a mpi command specification. 
For example:

        "simple_executable -n 40 40 40"

or

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

cbtfsummary requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.IP " ""multi_executable [args]"" "
This option specifies a multiple word executable with or without
arguments to be run. In this case the executable is multiple word 
command or a multiple word command, such as a mpi command 
specification. For example: 

        "/opt/mpi/mpirun -np 64 ./executable_name" 

cbtfsummary requires quotes around the executable and arguments when 
the executable command is not simple.

.SH FILES
.IP None at this time

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP CBTF_CSVDATA_DIR
This variable points to the directory to where cbtfsummary 
writes the csv files.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics section is TBD:

.SH QUICK START EXAMPLE

The "summary" experiment gives a low overhead overview 
of where application bottlenecks are.  Analyzing the output from 
this experiment can be used to choose an Open|SpeedShop 
experiment to further focus in on the application bottleneck(s).
.nf

cbtfsummary "/opt/openmpi/bin/mpiexec -np 64 /home/user/mpi_prog"
.fi

.SH BUGS
TBD

.SH AUTHOR
Open|SpeedShop Team <oss-questions@openspeedshop.org>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR openss (1),
.BR ossusertime (1),
.BR osshwc (1),
.BR osshwcsamp (1),
.BR osshwctime (1),
.BR ossio (1),
.BR ossiop (1),
.BR ossiot (1),
.BR ossmem (1),
.BR ossmpi (1),
.BR ossmpip (1),
.BR ossmpit (1),
.BR ossmpiotf (1),
.BR ossomptp (1)
.BR osspthreads (1)
.BR osscuda (1)
.BR osscompare (1)
.BR OpenSpeedShop (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_offline (3)
.BR OpenSpeedShop_cbtf (3)
